Framing and Formulating exercise answers:

1. The model will correctly identify between a stomach flu and food poisoning. 

2. The ideal outcome will be differentiate between cause, incubation periods, and the symptoms to 
differentiate the stomach flu from food poisoning. 

3. a) This supervised learning model so it has information about the distinctions between stomach 
   flu and food poisoning; the labeled data can act as a tool to check for correctness. If 97% give 
   the correct diagnosis, then it is considered a success. 
   b) The key result is the predicted diagnosis based on cause, incubation period and symptoms.
   c) Failure entails misdiagnosis - predicting stomach flu when a person has food poisoning, and 
   vice versa. If more than 3%  give the incorrect diagnosis, then it is considered a failure. 
   
4. a) The output for this model will be a diagnosis - stomach flu or food poisoning.
   b) The output is defined by T/F values for the diagnosis (i.e Stomach flu = T, Food Poisoning = F).  
   
5. a)  The output will happen as soon as (or in a very reasonable time frame from when) the user has
   inputted all the needed information. 
   b) The output can be used to help the patient figure out appropriate methods to care for him, her
   or themselves. Though this is too much like webmd, I’m realizing, and people should see a doctor 
   before they try to treat themselves.
   
6. If we don’t have this ML model, we can try determining a diagnosis through probabilities of having
a certain disease based on time of the year, and based on the incubation periods and symptoms.

7. a) This model is an example of a binary classification ML problem where the prediction will be
   choosing between the 2 labels (stomach flu and food poisoning).
   b) It already is a binary classification model.

8. Input1: cause (i.e virus vs. bacteria) 
   Input2: Incubation period (ie. choose either 24-48 hours, or 2-6 hours)
   Input3: list of symptoms (ie. fever, nausea)
   Output: diagnosis (a label)
   
9. The data comes from historical health records and information from the CDC. New data, that still requires
   a key result, comes from user inputs. 
   
10. Between cause, incubation period and symptoms, I will choose incubation period because there is great difference 
    between the incubation periods of stomach flu and food poisoning. Symptoms overlap, which causes the 
    confusion for most people and cause is often harder to detect until after a diagnosis is given.
